# JWT Authentication and Authorisation
# Authentication and Authorization module

**Spring Version: 3.0.1**

**Java Version: 17**

# Dependencies:
- spring-boot-starter-data-jpa
- spring-boot-starter-security
- spring-boot-starter-web
- spring-boot-starter-test
- spring-security-test
- lombok
- jjwt-api (0.11.5)
- jjwt-impl (0.11.5)
- jjwt-jackson (0.11.5)
- springdoc-openapi-starter-webmvc-ui (2.0.2)
- hibernate-validator (8.0.0.Final)

# Classes:

## 1. authentication
   - AuthenticationController.java
     - Description: It contain all the endpoints for the api.
     - Attributes:
       - authService
     - Methods:
       - register
       - authenticate
       - userUpdate
       - delete
       - refreshToken
       - recoverPassword

   - AuthenticationRequest.java
     - Description: Create a request template for authenticate endpoint.
     - Attributes:
       - email
       - password
  

- AuthenticationResponse.java
  - Description: Create an output from the endpoints.
  - Attributes:
    - token
    - error
    - refreshToken

  - PasswordRequest.java
    - Description: Create a request for recoverPassword endpoint.
    - Attributes:
      - email  

  - AuthenticationService.java
    - Description: It contain all the logic for the endpoints.
    - Attributes:
      - userRepository
      - passwordEncoder
      - jwtService
      - authenticationManager
      - logRepository
      - roleRepository
      - roleService
      - adminLog
    - Methods:
      - register
      - authenticate
      - userUpdate
      - delete
      - refreshToken
      - recoverPassword

  - RegisterRequest.java
    - Description: It create a request for create/update user.
    - Attributes:
      - firstname
      - lastname
      - email
      - password
      - isActive
      - role

## 2. config
   - swaggerConfig
       - Info.java
           - Description: It's a service that extends from the super swagger class.
           - Attributes: -
           - Methods: -

       - SpringdocConfig.java
           - Description: Create the bean to work with swagger and our api.
           - Attributes: -
           - Methods:
             - baseOpenAPI

   - ApplicationConfig.java
       - Description: Create the logic behind user credential, encrypting
       and managing of the authentication.
       - Attributes:
         - userRepository
       - Methods:
         - userDetailsService
         - authenticationProvider
         - authenticationManager
         - passwordEncoder

   - JwtAuthenticationFilter.java
     - Description: Create the token and valid if the token is valid when you are trying
     to reach another endpoint.
     - Attributes:
       - jwtService
       - userDetailsService
     - Methods:
       - doFilterInternal

   - JwtService.java
       - Description: Create the token and refreshToken, also validate
       that this token is not expired working simultaneous with JWTAuthenticateFilter.Java
       - Attributes:
         - SECRET_KEY
         - expiration
         - expirationRefreshToken
       - Methods:
         - extractUsername
         - extractClaims
         - generateToken
         - generateToken
         - generateTokenRefreshToken
         - generateTokenRefreshToken
         - isTokenValid
         - isTokenExpired
         - extractExpiration
         - extractAllClaims
         - getSigninKey

   - SecurityConfiguration.java
     - Description: Filter user with credentials or not for certain endpoints.
     - Attributes:
       - jwtAuthenticationFilter
       - authenticationProvider
     - Methods: 
       - securityFilterChain

## 3. model

  - User.java
    - Description: 
      - Entity class for the users.
    - Attributes:
      - Integer id:
          - Unique, autogenerated Id for the user.
      - String firstname:
          - User's first name.
      - String lastname:
          - User's lastname
      - String email:
          - User's email.
      - String password:
          - User's password.
      - Date lastLogin:
          - User's last login date.
      - Date dateJoined:
          - User's joined date.
      - Boolean isActive:
          - User's flag to define if it is an active user or not.
      - Role role:
          - User's role.
      - List<Permission> permissions:
          - User's permissions WIP.

    - Role.java
        - Description: ENUM List of Roles
        - Attributes:
            - id: 
              - Unique, autogenerated Id for the user.
            - name:
              - Name for the role
            - description:
              - Description for the role
            - priority:
              - Priority set for all the user.

  - UserRepository.java
      - Description: Repository for User related database actions.
      - Methods:
          - findByEmail:
            - Returns user using email as filter.

  - Permission.java
    - Description: List of permissions that can be assigned to roles.
      - Attributes:
        - id
          - Unique, autogenerated Id for the permission.
        - Name
          - Name for the permission
        - Description
          - Description for the permission
        - roles
          - Join permissions with roles

## 4. demo
  - DemoController.java

# Annotation Glossary

- @AllArgsConstructor:
  - Lombok annotation: 
    - Generates an all-args constructor. An all-args constructor requires one argument for every
      field in the class.

- @ApiResponse:
  - Swagger annotation: 
    - Used at method level or as field of Operation to define one or more responses of the Operation.

- @ApiResponses:
    - Swagger annotation: 
      - Container for repeatable ApiResponse annotation

- @Builder:
  - Lombok annotation: 
    - The builder annotation creates a so-called 'builder' aspect to the class that is annotated or the class that contains a member which is annotated with @Builder.
    If a member is annotated, it must be either a constructor or a method.\
    If a class is annotated, then a package-private constructor is generated with all fields as 
    arguments (as if @AllArgsConstructor(access = AccessLevel.PACKAGE) is present on the class), 
    and it is as if this constructor has been annotated with @Builder instead.\
    Note that this constructor is only generated if you haven't written any constructors and also 
    haven't added any explicit @XArgsConstructor annotations. In those cases, lombok will assume 
    an all-args constructor is present and generate code that uses it; this means you'd get a 
    compiler error if this constructor is not present.\
    The effect of @Builder is that an inner class is generated named TBuilder,
    with a private constructor.
    Instances of TBuilder are made with the method named builder() which is also generated for
    you in the class itself (not in the builder class).\
    The TBuilder class contains 1 method for each parameter of the annotated constructor / method
    (each field, when annotating a class), which returns the builder itself. The builder also has
    a build() method which returns a completed instance of the original type, created by passing
    all parameters as set via the various other methods in the builder to the constructor or
    method that was annotated with @Builder. The return type of this method will be the same as
    the relevant class, unless a method has been annotated, in which case it'll be equal to the
    return type of that method.

- @Data:
  - Lombok annotation: 
   - Generates getters for all fields, a useful toString method, and hashCode and equals
  implementations that check all non-transient fields. Will also generate setters for all
  non-final fields, as well as a constructor. \
  Equivalent to @Getter @Setter @RequiredArgsConstructor @ToString @EqualsAndHashCode.

- @NoArgsConstructor:
  - Lombok annotation: 
    - Generates a no-args constructor. Will generate an error message if such a constructor cannot
      be written due to the existence of final fields.

- @PreAuthorize:

- @RequiredArgsConstructor:
  - Lombok annotation: 
    - Generates a constructor with required arguments. Required arguments are final fields and
      fields with constraints such as @NonNull.

- @SecurityRequirement:
  - Swagger annotation: 
    - The annotation may be applied at class or method level, or in Operation.security() to define
      security requirements for the single operation (when applied at method level) or for all
      operations of a class (when applied at class level).
